[Applause]
Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm excited to speak with Josh
Meyer and Jack Dent, two of the
co-founders at Chai Discovery and former
BioAI and engineering leaders at Meta
OpenAI at Science Strike. This week,
Chai released their industry-leading Chi
2 zeroshot antibbody discovery platform,
which at its core is a generative model
that can design antibodies that bind to
specified targets with 100fold the hit
rate of prior computational approaches.
We'll talk about their product, the next
frontier for CHI, why they're bullish on
biotech, and why the most effective
antibbody engineers will soon be working
as expert prompt engineers. Jack, Josh,
uh, congrats on the Chai 2 launch.
Thanks for doing this. Welcome. Thanks
for having us, Sarah. We're excited to
be here. Great to be here. Josh, I'll
start by just asking, you know, you and
several of the scientists on the team
have been working on AI drug discovery
for about a decade now in different
settings. I have also been looking at
this area for for over a decade. We
haven't yet seen successes of drugs to
market that were designed, you know, um
with these AI computational techniques.
What what made you believe why start the
company when you guys did? That's a
great question. So many of us have been
working on this space for a while uh and
you know didn't start a company because
it was really a research idea I think
until very recently. You know there were
signs of life that someday this was
going to work but it wasn't really on
the timeline of a company right uh you
can't really start a company thinking
that 10 years from now things are going
to work. You also don't want to start a
company after it's already working and
kind of miss the boat. So the sweet spot
is like okay we have like maybe one two
years uh where that we have to to really
get this off the ground. And we made a
bet when we started the company that was
going to work. There were really a
couple of things that fueled that
decision. The first one was uh we we
made a bet that structure prediction,
protein folding was going to get a lot
better. So obviously protein folding is
considered solved in uh a couple of
years ago around like 2020. Yeah, the
breakthroughs of AlphaFold 2 and being
able to predict protein structures with
experimental accuracy, but it was just a
single protein structure at a time. So
we can take a single protein sequence
and we can see what that protein looks
like. That's very useful for basic
biology. So we can understand what the
proteins we're looking at look like. But
if you think about drug discovery, which
is uh where you know we're really
focused on at CHI discovery. In drug
discovery, you need to understand how
multiple molecules interact with one
another. So you need to understand how a
small molecule drug is going to modulate
a protein or how an antibbody protein is
going to modulate an an antigen protein.
So we started to see early signs of life
that that was going to be possible and
uh again we made a bet that we would be
able to take this to the next level with
the kinds of breakthroughs that we were
seeing around diffusion models and
around language models. The previous
generation of of structure prediction
models uh would really just predict you
know like one confirmation of protein at
a time. It kind of like one view on a
protein. It's like the early image
models like they didn't have diffusion
models. You weren't really able to uh to
look at the diversity of generations
that could come out. And we thought the
same thing would impact drug discover
and protein folding as well. So that's a
bit of color on on how we decided to
start the company and we did. And maybe
lastly I should say almost every AI bio
company before us has had some kind of
very tight lab integration with what
they are doing and and almost too tight.
I think the lab integration is great. We
do a lot of lab experiments at Chai. But
the thing that was missing was could you
actually have some kind of portable AI
platform something that would actually
be generalizable and could be applied to
lots of different areas. If you could do
that, it means that your impact uh could
really be taken to the next level. We
can take Chai 2, the model that we've
just released uh and we can deploy it uh
to hundreds of of different projects,
thousands of different projects. Chai 1,
which we open source, is already being
applied throughout the industry to tons
of different we don't even know
everything it's being applied to because
it's open sourced. But that was
something that was also really important
to us. Uh if we were going to kind of
see this transformation of biology from
a science into more of an engineering
discipline, which is uh uh ultimately
the goal of the company. Yeah. I want to
come back to um what you said about lab
integration as we talk more about the um
technical approach here. But Jack, you
and I met in the context of you know you
being a beloved engineering and product
leader at Stripe um coming from the
engineering side and looking for like
the most interesting problems to work on
in AI. Why did you decide to work on
this versus like some of the other
things we were talking about like
codegen and such? Yeah. So, as you know,
Sarah, I spent uh quite some time
thinking about my next steps and what I
wanted to do with my my life after my
the period I was at at Stripe. And I
give a lot of credit to Josh actually
for this that, you know, we were good
friends going back even to the to
college. You know, we were pet buddies
in college at Harvard and in many of the
same classes together. While I was
maxing out the CS curriculum, Josh was
also doing that somehow for the
chemistry and physics and all the other
scientific curriculara as well. uh but
we had landed in a lot of the same
classes and as uh as we went our
separate ways after college we really
just made a point of keeping in touch
every you know three six months and Josh
would always talk to me about about his
research once it became clear that that
the research that that Josh and others
were doing in this space was was really
no longer just a toy uh and but was was
really going to impact and change the
entire industry that idea became
infectious right it it sort of become
impossible to unsee the the future once
you you have that glimpse and although
you didn't know until very recently that
that any of this go is was going to work
and of course there's there's still a
lot left to prove once you start to
grasp the the implications of the fact
that over the next few years we are
going to have the ability as a human
race to engineer molecules with with
atomic precision it's almost hard to
work on anything else uh with with your
life uh the the impacts for society just
broadly uh and and human health and not
just health. There are there are a ton
of other areas which we'll this will
touch which we can get into but that is
just a platform shift in an entire
entire industry and uh so put that
together with the fact that the kind of
the the belief or conviction that you
might just be able to get it working and
I think it was it was uh impossible to
say no to working on this in many ways.
So there's a breakthrough uh result in
Chai 2. Can you give us a sort of lay
person's explanation of what the result
was and and the model itself and and um
what you think is the most valuable
part? Sure. Chai 2 is our latest series
of models which are state-of-the-art
across a number of different tasks, but
specifically the one we're most excited
about is design. And what we've shown is
that we can design a class of molecules
known as antibodies, which are some of
the most therapeutically interesting
molecules as well. These account for
close to 50% uh of all recent drug
approvals and seven of the top 10
bestselling drugs out there are actually
actually antibodies. And so what we've
shown with CHI 2 is really the ability
to design antibodies against targets
that one wants to go after in just a
small what we call a 24 well plate in
just 20 attempts. What this means is
that we take a target run our models ask
the model to design a antibbody. We then
ship that antibbody to the lab. We have
about a twoe validation cycle in the lab
and two weeks later we see that roughly
close to 20% of these antibodies
actually bind their targets in the
intended way. So try to is a major
breakthrough for the field. When we set
out on this project uh we were actually
only targeting a success rate of 1%.
That was the companywide goal for for
the entire year. uh and the reason we
set that goal of 1% is that previous
attempts at this problem are maybe
successful around 0.1% or even lower of
the time and that's those are the
computational techniques. If you look at
the traditional lab-based high
throughput screening techniques, people
are really screening between millions or
billions of compounds just to find one
molecule that that sticks. You know,
there's a reason we call it drug
discovery is it's a discovery problem.
It's a search problem. And so people are
really sort of sort of panning for gold
in these massive yeast or fage
libraries. Or alternatively, you might
inject a mouse or a llama. Uh you might
wait a couple of weeks for them to get
really sick. You might then uh bleed uh
bleed them, take their plasma, take the
the the antibodies out and isolate them.
Um and this is actually what we did for
CO actually. We would we actually took
some humans who had already got CO, took
their antibodies out of them, tried to
find one which which actually then
neutralized the virus. So you can
imagine not not an ideal or the most
efficient or the most uh principled
process. And so what we've shown uh with
CHI 2 is that we've able been able to
increase these these success rates in
discovering antibodies computationally
by multiple orders of magnitude compared
to the prior state-of-the-art
computationally and by many many many
orders of magnitude compared to the
traditional lab-based alternatives. And
what this means is um is pretty profound
for the the industry in our view. You
know, there there there are two ways to
look at this. There's of course the
faster, better, cheaper. You know, this
is going to allow us to make drugs
against targets and get them turned
around faster. But I think the thing
that we're really excited about and
what's I think more important is the
entire class of targets that this will
unlock in the future, which have just
been inaccessible to to previous
methods. And I think in general the
biotech uh industry is everybody's a
little glum right now. XBI hasn't done
that well over the last 5 years. I think
we're in one of the worst markets in
biotech um over the last few few
decades. But I think with Chry 2, we're
starting to see I think those first
early signs of a real platform shift in
in biotech. The sort that comes around
only so often. You know, we had one in
the 70s with all sorts of new techniques
then. The idea that in the next 5 10
years that there are going to be entire
new class of molecules that we're going
to be able to discover and entire new
targets that we're going to unlock and
markets that we can open up and
therapeutics we can get to patients to
real really cure diseases that have had
no cure before. That's just an
incredibly exciting prospect for us. I
want to come back to impact because I
think the ramifications here are are um
really huge. But uh if we just go and
like think about first problem design,
you I think looked at 52 problems. Why
that many? And like how do you specify a
target? I'm picturing like bind to
epitope X, but I'm sure there are other
requirements you'd want to have as drug
designers. It's a great question, Sarah.
So in the try 2 paper, we look at over
50 targets. Most of the existing uh
papers in this area of doing AI for for
drug discovery are usually looking at
like one, two or three targets. But
again, it was important for us if we
were seeing this as an engineering
problem to make sure that this is going
to be generalizable. It's like imagine
you had a new LLM paper and you said,
"Oh, I solved like one problem in the
USO uh contest like really really cool."
It's like no, you need a real benchmark
and you need to actually have that
benchmark at scale. You need to have
enough problems to convince yourself
that the system is working. So that's
why whenever we do these experiments,
you know, sometimes we'll we'll try one
or two targets just to make sure there's
not like a huge bug and you know, make
sure not everything fails. But, you
know, even if everything fails in one or
two, you know, the hit rate's 50%, you
could have just gone unlucky. So that's
one of the reasons why we decided to do
a big benchmark here, really convince
ourselves things are working. The way we
selected the 50 problems, the biology
people would laugh at this and
engineering people would love it. We
actually just went to the vendor
cataloges to see what was in stock cuz
we wanted to turn around this experiment
quickly. We ordered all of these designs
at the same time. So we actually wrote a
scraper that would go and see what was
in stock. We would go and pick out the
protein. We would go look up what that
protein sequence was. Now we need to
make sure this is held out from training
as well, right? So we would take that
that protein sequence. We would go
compare it to all of like the uh the a
database called the SAD dab. It's it's a
group of like antibbody structures in
the protein data bank and we'd make sure
that like none of these sequences were
in there and that none of these
sequences were actually even close to
anything in there. We removed things
that had, you know, more than uh 70%
sequence identity. So really things that
are like a bit different than what we uh
could have trained on. Then selected
those, made our designs, and then we
shipped everything off to the lab. So we
actually think uh it's possible that the
50% is actually an underbound because we
might have just like messed things up
because of how we set up this
experiment. We did not think about the
biology. These are not necessarily
things that are even that useful for
therapeutics. Some of these already even
have drug programs against them. We were
just doing this really from a a model
assessment perspective. let's understand
how well the model is working. Let's
convince ourselves. Let's convince the
community that try 2 is working. And
then in terms of applying this to
problems, I think you know now we've got
like hundreds of people that want to go
and like try the model tomorrow uh and
apply it to to the various drug programs
that that they're working on. Uh so that
was really how we we came up with those
50 tasks. Let's benchmark this and treat
as an engineering problem. We have a
broad audience for no prior that ranges
from like business people to engineers,
machine learning researchers, some
scientists in other fields. like what
intuition can you give listeners for how
the model works under the hood like
especially for anybody who might start
with um some familiarity with like
structure prediction models? Yeah, well
structure prediction is really a key
part in making these models work and
it's actually the first thing we did
when we started the company is we
sprinted to build a state-of-the-art
structure prediction engine. We actually
open sourced the first version of that.
It's called Chi1 and again like
scientists around the world are using
that now. But structure prediction
basically gives you an atomic level
microscope and it allows you to see
where atoms are placed in 3D space. So
once you can do that and you have this
microscope then the next question is
well can we start moving those atoms
around right we can now start to make
changes in a sequence and then we can
see uh the ramifications of those
changes in 3D space. So the actual
design model you can think of it as uh
you prompt it with uh some information
like here's a target uh that we want to
go and and and design uh an antibbody
against and then the model will will try
to place again these atoms in 3D space
in order to satisfy that constraint like
we tell the model here's a target and I
want you to make a molecule that you
know binds to to that location and then
model will go and and generate uh both a
a sequence and and a structure that uh
that kind of fits into that. So that's
like the high level intuition for this.
Yeah. One piece of intuition around that
is that you can almost think about
structure prediction as the imageet
moment for the field where with
structure prediction we are asking a
model to go from sequence to a predicted
structure and it's sort of like a
classification task and then design
where you're trying to design binders
that is much more like a generative task
that's sort of like midjourney for
molecules whereas structure prediction
you are looking to predict the placement
of atoms in in 3D space. With design,
you're taking an existing placement of
atoms and you're trying to craft a new
set of atoms that is complimentary to to
that original set. So, one analogy that
people like to use is that of a a lock
and a key. and that when designing uh a
protein or a drug, you're you have some
target which is your lock and you're
trying to design a key using a
generative model that that that fit fits
that lock. And the uh the way that the
models work is actually pretty pretty
interesting. They uh they reason quite
literally by placing individual atoms in
in 3D space. And often they're getting
the the resolution of of these
structures the error down to less than
the width of of one atom when we look at
the error across the entire structure.
So when we talk about atomic level
microscope uh you can see now why that
might be important for design because
how can you hope to be able to design
the the key if you can't see see the
lock. Yeah that's completely wild from a
precision of prediction perspective. uh
you know if we analogize to LLM's you
know you have learned grammar syntax
semantics capabilities that emerge in
the model that you can measure is there
anything that would be analogous in
terms of emergent vocabulary concepts
that you think chai 2 has yeah I think
this whole point about the atomic level
microscope is actually that point right
there is something really I don't know I
think deep we still don't fully
understand it about like why these
models work again we didn't even know
this was possible obviously we tried So
we thought that there was a chance but
and I think it just tells you something
about you know maybe the signature of
how proteins interact with one another
is really embedded in the data right and
we're generalizing to a new setting so
it's not like the model has seen you
know specific binders against the target
and then we're just trying to do some in
domain generalization and walk through
that space that's actually quite an
impactful application as well uh and
that that's already being done through
the biotech industry our our team
published work on that years ago already
but I think this really new frontier
about generalizing to a new space. It
tells us that and again like the model
is learning something really fundamental
about how the molecules interact with
one another. Again, it's it's able to
generalize to to problems that look very
different in terms of how we would
actually organize it in the biology. I
think the whole rules about, you know,
what do we think about like a a protein
family being different? These targets
that we tested on are again a biologist.
They are very quote unquote dissimilar
from what we saw during training. But it
doesn't seem like the model thinks that
way. They actually even have a plot in
our paper in the supplement where we
actually look at an even harder subset.
So not looking at things that are, you
know, up to 70% uh sequence similarity
with the model, but actually pushing all
the way down to 25%. So really looking
at tasks that are very different. We saw
in training success rate was basically
the same like the model didn't care. And
and again, I think that indicates
something very profound about what the
models are learning here. I mean my
assumption is the same here where uh
obviously the the fastest path to
immediate impact is going to be you know
antibodies in clinic or whatever other
therapeutics CHI and its partners work
on but it does raise a question of like
if the model has learned something that
fundamentally like the biology research
community doesn't yet know from a
principles perspective like we will also
learn those rules from these models or
whatever the principles are of of
structure and interaction. Um, so I
think that's super exciting. Yeah,
totally agree. Well, how would you
characterize like overall hoped for
impact of Chai 2 in terms of like
bringing it to industry or your own
programs? It's a great question, Sarah.
So, there's maybe two main areas that we
can break it down into. The first one is
uh again like we turn this into an
engineering problem and spend is
spending months or or sometimes even
years trying to discover some molecule.
you know, now now we can actually do it
way faster. Uh because the screening, if
you will, is happening on the computer
instead of in the lab. But the second
area that we're actually even more
excited about is how do we actually
solve problems which just weren't even
reachable with traditional methods. The
model is not perfect. You know, it
worked in 50% of the targets that we
tried. Maybe it would have been more,
right, for the caveats we talked about
before, but you know, it works in 50% of
cases. The failure mode of the models is
going to be different than the failure
mode in the lab today. And I think
that's really going to be the the sweet
spot to focus in on. What are the areas
that were not possible, you know, a few
months ago, uh, where now we'll be able
to actually generate potential molecules
really quickly against. So, so those are
the two areas. You have things that you
can do today, let let's do them a lot
faster, a lot cheaper, but I think
really the breakthrough opportunities
are are things that just weren't
possible before. Yeah. One other thing
that we've announced is that we will be
opening up access to both uh academic
groups and industry partners. I think
when you think about how this space is
just going to evolve in the next few
years and the amount of opportunity
that's that's out there given this
platform shift, there is way too much
opportunity for any one company to
capture alone. And there uh drug
discovery itself is just an incredibly
resource inensive process and I think it
would be probably a conceit to assume
that we could go after and pursue every
target. We've done every program
ourselves even if we we wanted to. And
so when we think about impact and think
about what is is going to move the
needle for the company of course, but
also for the world, we think that the
way to to do that is to go out and uh
bring this to life with a really
exciting set of of partners. And so
we've opened up access. There's an
access page on our website which people
can go to and fill out. currently
working through those been inundated to
requests but uh my hope is that we can
can uh really enable quite quite a few
use cases with this and do that quite
quickly. What is the reception been like
so far? What is the biggest objection?
Because this is a you know significant
challenge to the ideas of high
throughput screening or even like the
workflow that um you know even
innovative pharma and biotechs have
today. Yeah, it's a great question. You
know, usually when these kinds of uh
papers come out, again, people have
tried to to do this many times, the
critique is is often, you know, does
this really work? You know, you you show
this on maybe COVID, for example, is
this going to work for a case where we
have less training data? Are the
molecules going to be high quality? Do
we really, you know, kind of believe the
data? So, I think the approach we did
like benchmarking this at scale has
really helped a lot with that reception.
Like, I think people really appreciated
that approach, which has been great.
Some of the questions people have is
okay like I can already discover drugs.
So, uh, you know, so now I have AI that
can do it a lot faster, but does that
actually change the kinds of of
molecules I can work on? And it goes
back to what we just discussed before. I
think there are other folks that are
responding to that saying like, no, like
the the transformation here is how about
those projects that didn't work for you
uh or or where you're really struggling
today. Now you got another tool in the
toolkit and you kind of have to use this
tool now or or you might be left behind.
So, I think that it's been really
interesting to see the the community
kind of digesting this. Of course, a lot
of the AI folks are are really excited,
right? Like we're getting artificial
antibodies uh before we're getting, you
know, maybe other breakthroughs we would
have expected earlier, but it's uh it's
overall been been uh been really
exciting to see that reception. I mean,
our inboxes are just flooding up. Like
the early access has gotten hundreds of
people, you know, within hours of of
launching uh reaching out to us. We we
just announced, so I think we're still
kind of digesting all that. We're a
small team. Uh so we're we're
prioritizing early access to to the
right people, but we're we're really
excited uh to kind of get the models out
there and for them to to start solving
some uh some really uh hard problems in
the drug discovery space. Is there an
important future for like large scale
wet lab screening? Does it just become a
data collection exercise to fill out the
distribution for CHI models? Are there
areas where you will you think we'll
need that in 10 years, 20? Yeah, I think
if you just take the models and then you
sample more, you probably will get a
better result. So we tested only 20
molecules per per target in the paper up
to 20 molecules. You know, if you were
to do 10 times that, 100 times that,
orders of magnitude more, you probably
just get into spaces uh with better
better molecules. So, you know, the
machine learning model is probabilistic.
It's like using chat GPT. If you if
you're trying to solve a math problem
and then you look at the top one
response or if you look at the top
10,000 responses, you're going to get a
better result if you look at the top
10,000. You can't really do that with a
product experience on chat GBT. I'm not
going to look through 10,000 math
responses. I won't even know which one
is correct. The cool thing with a lab
actually is we actually could just test
all 10,000 of those in the lab. So, I
don't know if you have to. Uh but that's
definitely something that is I think
going to be tested out with these
models. And I think the future of high
throughput screening and how they kind
of interact with the models. I think the
question is still open. But I I expect
that uh you know people will be creative
and and will find ways to actually take
the best of AI and marry that with the
best of biology uh to kind of push the
bounds forward. And just to add to one
thing to that there's a whole host of
really uh amazing CRO and other players
with this incredible expertise running
those traditional methods. And to to
Josh's point, we have many many
companies asking us, can you run this
not just 20 times, but can you run this
100,000 times, even if it's going to
work in 20 cuz I just might find
something better, right? And that
something better can result in a better
drug. That could be the difference
between getting a patient an antibbody
which requires an injection or something
which requires subq dosing, for example.
And so I think with these tools you can
sample research space sort of add
infinit item and that that marrying of
traditional technique and models will
actually hopefully get us into areas of
the space where we can just find better
products for patients. I want to ask one
more question generally about like
predictions for biotech and then I want
to talk about the future of chai as
well. What do you think biotech looks
like 25 years from now? I realize that's
a ludicrous question to anybody working
in AI where you're like hey I didn't
know this was going to work at all last
year. As I mentioned before, there is a
lot of doom and gloom in the biotech
industry right now due to macro factors
uh with rates where they are and the
long-term investment cycles that are
required to make biotech viable. There
is just a real pessimism in the industry
right now. It's sort of the world's
market in in in a couple of of decades.
And I think that it's moments like this,
breakthroughs like this which give us
these flashes of light and these these
reasons for just immense optimism about
the the future of this industry, not
just in terms of improving timelines and
reducing costs, but also in terms of
fundamentally enabling th those new
products. And so if we think ahead over
the next 25 years, you know, we've gone
from a less than.1% success rate to a
close to 20% success rate in a year.
Well, who's to say that in another year
that can't be a 50 plus or even a close
to 100% success rate? I think if you see
our mini protein results, we are a uh I
think close to 70% uh on those with
peacola affinities like really really
tight binders for every single target
that we tested. So all five targets we
tested worked and 70% of the designs
that we ordered worked. I think that
there's no reason that other classes of
molecules that those success rates can't
be that high as well. And I think once
you you have that you really enter this
this era where you sort of have a
computer aided design suite for
molecules in a way that you know we have
maybe solid works for mechanical
engineering or we have Photoshop for
create creatives and uh that that entire
software suite will exist for um for
biology. I think the the implications of
that, the ability to design, program,
understand the interactions between
atoms and molecules at the most
fundamental level are pretty vast and
should just give us a lot of a lot of
hope and excitement about what's what's
about to happen. We're just talking last
night about maybe we should be getting
baseball caps saying bullish on biotech
on them. Uh because I think this is one
of those special moments which I think
can really we've heard from many others
writing into the company that this has
really shifted their opinion. If you
think about going from antibodies to,
you know, obviously better success rates
and then also other therapeutics, is
there a difficulty hierarchy we should
have in our minds or is it just like
unexplored space in terms of enzymes and
peptides, small molecules, other
domains? Yeah, it's actually a lot more
than just success rates. There's lots of
properties that need to be optimized for
a molecule. You know, finding a drug is
like looking for a needle in a hay
stack. And I think we've really passed
through massive swaths of of that
sequence space uh with Chi 2, right? by
really focusing out on the things that
bind and that's where like a lot of the
search base gets has to be searched in
the lab today going deeper into other
properties as well. Let's make sure that
these antibodies can be manufactured
well. Let's make sure that they can be
really stable. So there's lots of other
properties that that we're excited
about. So so stay tuned for that. And
then the other thing is actually there
are next generation antibody formats
even. So what we predict will happen is
uh people probably won't be as
interested in in the clinic for for
things like monoconal antibodies. These
are you know antibodies that are hitting
for example like a specific epitope on a
on a protein. But now if we can make
antibodies much faster and more easily.
You can imagine a future where if I want
to hit a target let me choose two
different parts of that target make two
different proteins that are hitting them
like basically two different primitive
antibodies and let let me bring them
together. Uh this this is called a
biparattopic two parotopes. So, so
basically two different antibbody
interactions and that kind of stuff is
going to become a lot easier to do
today. I think these days there's a lot
of trade-offs that get made in biotech
about like you know risk on your target
uh risk on your discovery process uh how
hard is it going to be to make our
molecule and I think AI is going to
raise the bar across the board. I think
the bullish on biotech uh you know
movement that that you know Jack is
announcing here as well. If we think
about what that could even represent uh
there's right now a lot of risk in
biotech. there's a lot of crowding on
the same kinds of targets, the risk
actually starts to go down in terms of
discovering some of the stuff. Maybe
there's still clinical risk if you try
something that's like totally new that
people haven't haven't done before, but
we've just like opened up I think the
arbiture of opportunities uh that that
can be pursued here and that's something
that I think is is really exciting. So
still a lot more work to do for us to
validate that like all this is is going
to be possible but I think just the pace
at which the field is moving uh just
gives us a lot of optimism uh for for
what's going to be possible next. And
maybe I can just share one anecdote
about uh why we we are so optimistic. We
had a partner come to us as we were in
the process of of building these models.
We didn't even really know. We we hadn't
had back our first few batches of data.
So we didn't know if if it was going to
to really work yet. This partner had
been working on this problem for a for a
few years. They had a team of I think
five to 10 people working on it. They
estimated that fully loaded all of those
those people might have set the company
back with the experiments they they had
done as well maybe five 10 million
dollars and it was a a problem where
they wanted to build a molecule that
crossreacts against two different
species. So both a human form and a
syino or a monkey form of this protein
such that when they put this this
molecule into animal testing if you know
they didn't want it to fail because the
monkey has a slightly different version
of that that protein than the human
does. So we really struggling to get
this to work for whatever reason and we
put this into the model and just
prompted the model to to design for
these these two targets at the same time
not just one target. So you can imagine
that this is a slightly more
sophisticated challenge than just
designing against once. We ordered
actually only 14 sequences to the lab
and uh I think four of those were hits
to humans. Uh one of those was a hit to
the sino. One of them was actually
overlapped and hit both. That one now
allows us to move forward with that
program and gives us a whole amount a
host of diversity around that molecule
that one can explore as well. First of
all, that's very cool. And second, I I
think it's interesting that a lot of
industry observers would say like the
bottleneck in pharma and the expense in
pharma is clinical not discovery. And
like I think you're pointing to the fact
well like we can design for clinic,
right? And actually it's intuitive but
it's just because it is an argument from
people bearish in biotech or concerned
about the ability to u make progress in
programs and uh and reduce cost for for
any given successful drug is well you
know if discovery had less risk as Josh
was pointing out which is like a a huge
claim then the entire uh industry is
more efficient right and more effective.
That's the that's the hope. Yeah. And I
think we've got a lot of reason to be
optimistic. I also don't want to
oversimplify things. You know, there's
lots of other things that go into making
a drug. There's capital markets that go
into this. Uh, you know, this there's
tons of clinical risk. This is really
just the tip of the iceberg. But, uh,
we're really excited about about the
progress that that this could represent.
I want to ask strategically like where
Chai invests from here. So you talked
about other attributes that you want to
be able to design in China models, but
if we just look at this generically as a
like an AI model company. Um where do
you think the defensibility is? There
are two key areas of investment for for
the company. I I I think firstly what
comes out of these models, these just
aren't drugs yet. They're they're hits.
They're antibody hits. But there's a lot
more work to be done to actually turn
these into verbal molecules that we can
put into humans. We have early data uh
which we we put in our preprint to
suggest that a lot of the properties
that one might want from a drug that
these these molecules actually have but
we need to do a lot more further
characterization and assays to convince
ourselves that we can do that and then I
think there's also the next step stage
beyond that is actually designing entire
drug candidates in zero shot right out
of the models and I think a few months
ago we might have said this was a pretty
futuristic idea and nobody in the the
company was really really talking much
about this but I think once you see
these results and grapple with the
implications the fact that we can get
antibbody hits in just 20 attempts
there's there's no reason uh that that
we couldn't generate entry drug
candidates in that same num number of
attempts so I think there's going to be
some key investments there and really
yeah you the model right now is a model
it's not really a product it is a
product and it's certainly useful today
but there's a lot better that that
product can can get with with more more
investment into just making sure that we
can optimize all the therapeutic
properties that people care about. And
then of course there's the entire
interface and software layer around that
to make make this this really um easy to
use uh and the real platform that that
goes around supporting supporting that.
So you know how do you if you want to
hit two targets design a molecule that
that uh hits both how do you specify
that in the software you this is going
to be a sufficiently advanced piece of
software. um it's going to be become,
you know, as advanced as as a Photoshop
over over time. And as as we build that
out, I think we're going to need to make
some some really core investments into
just the engineering and the products to
ensure that uh that that we are building
building a software that we ourselves
and others will will really love to use.
Yeah. One thing to add on to that as
well, we released Chai 1 open source. We
thought of it as a model and I think
Chai 2 is a lot more than a model,
right? It's become a product. uh it's
actually more of a of a bigger pipeline
that comes together to even make this
happen and it also becomes trickier to
use these models. protein folding, you
put in your sequences, you get out a
structure. Design is a different story,
right? Actually specifying the prompt on
its own, we did that programmatically in
the paper to go and assess this thing at
scale. But a scientist who wants to use
this to initiate a drug discovery
program probably not using a script uh
to come up with that prompt uh is
probably going to be really thoughtful
uh about it. And I think that's why
investing in in the product layer here
is really important. And not to mention,
it's only going to get more complicated
from here, right? as we start to support
more advanced drug modalities, as
there's various properties that come
online, as the we we actually show some
early evidence of this in the in the
white paper, you know, you might want to
actually optimize for multiple proteins
at the same time. Sometimes uh you know,
actually it's a it's a good time to be a
sick mouse. In order to have a human uh
drug, it usually needs to work in
animals as well. And sometimes drug
programs actually get stuck there. It's
like, okay, guys, like we either have a
mouse drug or a human drug. It's really
hard to get both. And there are actually
some cases where people have to discover
two different drugs. They have a they
call a surrogate antibbody. I'm going to
like make the mouse version. I'm going
to study that, convince the FDA that
like this mechanism works. And but
you're even taking risk. You're like
maybe this molecule like works like
slightly differently. We literally show
that example in the paper of optimizing.
Uh we don't do mouse, we actually do
monkey. Uh so like monkey and and human
together. Uh but you can throw other
species into that as well. Sometimes
you've got the opposite problem. I want
to hit this protein. I don't want to hit
this other protein. uh we've got some
early evidence as of late uh that that's
that's possible as well. And these sorts
of things, you know, the prompts are
just a lot more complicated and and it
means that you need to have like the
right product. Uh what happens when you
start doing those experiments in the
lab? We want the models to learn from
that and then help us really be like a
co-pilot and and driving like the next
stage of those designs as well. You
know, all of this is uh again, it's more
than just the models. It's really
thinking about those workflows as well.
Um, and it's even about just getting
that word out to people and having them
think about this is a new tool in their
stack. What happens if you're an
antibody engineer and you've been doing
things in a certain way for the past 30
years and now there's a new paradigm in
discovering drugs like that itself is
actually a problem uh that that a
company needs to solve. So these are all
different areas that that we're
investing in right now. That actually
begs a question I was um going to ask
you is like if you are an antibbody
engineer or a biologist today what
advice you know given let's say they
believe you about how much is going to
change and this like CAD for biology
like a software suite that is um coming
into in existence like what should they
learn be good at like go study well
number one get access to try two number
two you know figure out how to to get
your prompts right and uh and actually
take full advantage of it. And then I
think number three, you know, start
dreaming about uh the new possibilities.
You know, it's interesting uh we've
talked to a lot of uh antibody engineers
since since starting the company and
we've been alluding sometimes to, you
know, what we're doing here. You know,
uh sometimes you do the market research
question, you ask, you know, suppose you
had like a 1% success rate for
antibodies, like what would you use that
for? Uh the conversations are are
changing now that first of all, it's not
1%, it's 10% and like people see that
it's working. I think that creativity is
really being unlocked even even
ourselves right I think when people are
thinking about the answer to that
question there's always some big doubt
in your mind it's like ah it's a
hypothetical question you know your
neurons are not activating in the same
way of doing something with it was the
same thing with LMS it's like imagine
asking someone 5 10 years ago oh you
know if we could predict the next word
in a sentence perfectly like what would
you do with that it it's actually very
hard to imagine until you start playing
with the models even even our team
internally you know now uh even without
sending us to the lab you know we can
again choose some targets choose prompt
generate stuff against it. You start to
look at the uh generations that are
coming out of the model and you're like,
"Oh, wait. I can actually solve this
problem by like choosing the right
epitope on a target, choosing the right
part of the target." Like these two
targets are different. Like sure, we we
have an engine that the model can
optimize for one and or optimize for
both uh you know or selectivity optimize
for one and not the other. But you can
actually get a lot of that by uh by
choosing your your prompt in in a smart
way. So So let me hit part of that
protein that is actually quite different
between the two things or quite similar
between the two things. uh these are the
sorts of realizations that in retrospect
are quite obvious but they they don't
really hit you until you actually start
to like use a product like this
yourself. So I think uh people are are
just once they get their hands on this
uh I think they will they'll start to
dream of the new possibilities. I think
it just really raises the bar. You know
the people who are most excited about
that are often the these antibody
engineers and these biologists. A lot of
the the work that they're doing today is
painstaking and they're not the biggest
fan of these slow feedback loops and
these intractable problems because many
of them that we speak to are just really
motivated to to solve solve a particular
task. And so you you give them, you
know, I I'm an engineer. You give me a
tool which says I have to write less
code. I love that. I can now think more
about system design and architecture and
more complex products and and all these
other things. Um, but uh it it's really
going to raise the bar for a lot of
these people and uh I think people are
only really now starting as Josh said to
to think through all the possibilities.
I was on calls with people are as a
matter of few weeks ago where people
saying when do you think this is going
to happen? and they say, "Oh, not for 3
to 5 years. This is a really futuristic
idea." And then then a couple weeks
later, you show them what they have and
they sort of fall off their chair. And
so there's going to be a a sort of joint
effort with us alongside these these
domain real domain experts to actually
find figure out the these key
application areas because biology is so
vast and and so complicated that
actually there is so much knowledge that
so many of the practitioners the
specialists have that that uh no one
company will just ever possess. Uh which
is why we're so excited to go out and be
be partnering with with people to to
really bring this to life. I want to ask
a couple questions more just uh
specifically about company building
before we run out of time. And maybe
Jack, I will start with you're amazing
engineer and then you guys also have
like a a very software oriented team
working on biological problems. Some of
those people come from, you know,
long-term research in that space in
particular. But for for yourself, Jack,
like as you said, you're you're software
person. How do you get up to speed on
the bio area to go do leading work?
Well, I think it's two things. First of
all, uh ramping up on any new field is
always just a a total fight. Uh you have
to to get to the frontier and to be have
read the right papers and to be
knowledgeable about the the areas that
you need you need to learn. You just
have to sort of push your head down and
push through and there are there are
waves of excitement and misery in that
experience, but you can get there fast
if you really set set your mind to it.
And I'd say the second part is that
surrounding yourself with just the most
incredible team is the best thing that
you can do far beyond anything that you
can learn by yourself. And we have
certainly the most special group of
people that that I've ever worked with
within the company. Our co-founders Matt
McPartland and Jack uh Bo who who are
you know just rare talents. Uh and then
you know the entire team beyond that.
some of the former heads of AI at other
drug discovery companies, some of the
top open source contributors. The team
is so uh multi-talented. It's it's
small. That's it's around a dozen
people, but but mighty. And I think as
we've seen in other areas of AI, small
but mighty teams can go a really really
long long way these days. And so, you
know, the there uh I think there are
actually surprisingly few people on our
on our team even with a computer science
degree. Josh himself got a chemistry
degree. uh Alex goes his PhD in physics
uh and a whole whole a whole host of
others but that that that this work is
so um interdisciplinary that really
having that that um breadth of knowledge
across biology, chemistry, physics,
artificial intelligence, computer
science, engineering. It it really takes
a village and everybody is is learning
from each other the every day because of
just how vast that subject matter is
that one has to have a command of. I
think we've also just benefited from
such immense focus as well. Everyone is
so has been so passionate about trying
to solve this problem and I think I
really credit that to being a huge
reason on like why we were able to
achieve it. And we've also got a team
that because of that focus is very
engineering centric as well. So if you
look at the whole team, you know, we we
have a a very researchoriented team
right now, but everyone is a stellar
engineer as well and takes that very
seriously. So it's not everyone's
solving, you know, their favorite pet
problem. we are all going and after the
same problem and solving that together
and and you know even just 10 people
solving a problem together there's a lot
of code being written every day you have
to be very thoughtful about how that all
comes together and interacts and I think
especially in our next phase of growth
for the company as we start to invest
you know more and more in product and
and and the velocity around that and
getting this into folks hands that's
just going to become even more
important. How do we make sure that the
latest research breakthroughs that that
we're shipping internally are actually
making their ways into partners' hands?
That's something that again we are very
thoughtful about at Chai uh and and take
very seriously. Yeah. I I also remember
um Jack in our office at conviction like
debating the merits of dev containers
with some of your scientist teammates at
the very beginning of the company and
both of you from the beginning you know
talked a lot about platform investment
and and so I actually think that's like
a little bit sort of unconventional in
terms of such a researchoriented team to
say like we need to make this platform
investment and can you talk a little bit
about that? Yeah. Uh so I've gone
through the experience of going from you
know zero to 100 on on engineer large
engineering products before I I worked
on uh stripe link which was kind of a
multi-year project and again stripe
capital where engineering teams scaling
from zero to 25 50 people by by by the
time we were were done there. Um, same
same for link maybe more. And I think
you just learn that unless somebody is
really taking care to keep the entire
system in their head and is an effective
technical steward of the architecture
that things just devolve and the sort of
entropy of a software takes over and
slows down your rate of progress to zero
because nobody can can get get work done
anymore. And so somebody needs to keep
their the entire system in in their head
and the interaction between all those
components and make sure that people who
are working on individual subcomponents
of your codebase actually have to
minimize the amount of context they need
to load into their heads to understand
how to accomplish that task. So these
are just the the principles of really
you know it's pretty basic. It's just
simplicity and modularity, but making
sure that's a practice and a kind of
cultural uh cultural practice and that
everybody's on on the same same page
about investing in that uh and that you
know people aren't cutting corners. They
they they see it as their responsibility
to lay the groundwork for the next
person. And this is doubly hard to do in
deep learning code bases because often
if you introduce a bug or write a
regression, you won't know for weeks
that that is that that has shown up. You
know, it's sort of terrifying uh because
you know, you could spend a million
dollars on a training run with a bug
that crept in four weeks ago. We we've
literally had to do this in CHI's
history, but we've had to go and bict
Git history, run launch training runs,
you know, with with a sort of a binary
search to identify a small enough range
of pull requests to to identify a bug,
then go to that that that pull request,
identify the bug, and uh I think it's
those sorts of experiences and the cost
that that that finding that bug probably
I'm not sure if it was millions of
dollars, but it was certainly tens of
thousands of dollars of compute time to
go back can find that thing. It's
experiences like that which I think make
rigor such an important practice and
engineering rigor in the company. And so
being rigorous about I think you know
some people are surprised to learn that
even though we're we we do deep learning
that we are pretty rigorous about
writing unit tests for everything. Uh
but I think these basic software
engineering practices are actually
sorely lacking from most research code
bases. And so bringing in some of those
basic principles has allowed us to move
very fast and not just fast in the Sha
term, but it should give us a a a
mechanism to compound on that investment
over over time. Well, and it's overall
very aligned with your just mission of
term biology from science to
engineering, right? It makes sense that
it would go through the core of the
company's practice, too. Um, I have two
more questions before we run out of time
here. The first is, you know, you talk
about the expense of like training
experiments. like what's your decision
framework for like how quickly to scale
compute or you know paralyze uh
experiments here? Yeah, we tried to set
up the company in a pretty scrappy way.
Actually when we were getting started uh
we should have even talked about this as
well. You know we the company wasn't
even we we're based in San Francisco. It
wasn't even clear the company be in San
Francisco when we started and you know
back then we hadn't like raised capital
for uh for the company really yet. Uh we
were kind of like using free compute uh
credits for from the cloud providers. Um
I think for us it's it's just about uh
being again laser focused on solving the
problem and just like really making the
case like why are we doing something and
and I think that you know if that's
reasonable we'll go and invest in it
again in an engineering problem if it's
if it's uh you know kind of clear you're
seeing signs of lie if you're seeing
some scaling law or whatever it is like
let's go as fast as possible make that
work but let's also not get distracted
like scaling something out if we are not
convinced that that it's going to work
yet. Uh so I think that you know kind of
scrappy culture on the you know where
are we spending side kind of goes
handinhand with with making really fast
progress because it means we have a high
bar for like where we're spending our
time. Everyone on the team works
extremely hard. You know there's uh
there's there's people in the office
like you know all times of day all times
of night. Uh and it's it's pretty
beautiful to see that. So we work hard
but I think we also work really smart
and uh and I think you have to do that
uh to to make progress with how fast the
field is moving right now. you now see
signs of life. You know, you're very
you're very bullish on biotech. That
also means like given that you are uh
going to try to scale to support, you
know, demand from the industry and your
own your own efforts. Um who are you
looking to hire now? We're really hiring
across all functions right now. So,
we've done made some really big
breakthroughs here on on the AI research
side. And as we take that to the next
level and and try to get Chai 2 and and
in front of the the right partners,
we're hiring for product engineering,
for anti-body engineering, for business
development, uh account executive, like
there's a there's a whole host of of
roles that are that are open on on our
site right now. And again, this work is
extremely interdicciplinary and we we
really wanted to build this uh in a
thoughtful way. uh so that we can make
you know chai 2 as as useful as possible
for the industry. Well, thanks for doing
this guys and congratulations on you
know progressing the frontier of of uh
AI discovery. Thanks so much for having
us on Sarah. It's uh it's it's been
really fun. Thank you Sarah.
Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.